NXDOC-2076: Observability section (#1490)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/nuxeo-server/administration/observability/logs.md

---
title: Logs
description: Configuring Nuxeo logs.
review:
    date: '2020-06-10'
    status: requiresUpdates
    comment: 'To be reviewed since log4j2?'
labels:
    - metrics
    - monitoring
toc: true
tree_item_index: 200
history:
  -
---

> Nuxeo logging is compliant with common Java logging frameworks&nbsp;[Log4J](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/),&nbsp;[Log4j2](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/),&nbsp;[SLF4J](http://www.slf4j.org/)&nbsp;and&nbsp;[JUL](http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/logging/index.html).

Reviewer: There's also [JCL](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-logging/) framework in our stack. It was the preferred one before the Log4j2 switch.

Author: ok inserted JCL between log4j2 and SLF4J

Note also that FINER and FINEST logs will be ignored anyway.

## JSON format

By editing your `log4j2.xml` you can turn log into JSON,
You can have a look at [this JSON contribution](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo/blob/master/server/nuxeo-nxr-server/src/main/resources/templates/docker-json/lib/log4j2.xml)

## Garbage Collector

You can activate the JVM garbage collector logs with the following option in your `nuxeo.conf`:

```bash
JAVA_OPTS=$JAVA_OPTS -Xlog:gc*:file=${nuxeo.log.dir}/gc.log
```

## Slow NXQL Queries

It is possible to easily pinpoint slow NXQL. If you want trace all the queries that take more than 100ms:

1.  Add the following line in your `nuxeo.conf`:

    *   For VCS:

        ```
        org.nuxeo.vcs.query.log_min_duration_ms=100

        ```

    *   For DBS:

        ```
        org.nuxeo.dbs.query.log_min_duration_ms=100

        ```

2.  Activate the log for session you use (VCS or DBS)&nbsp;at the INFO level.
    Here an example of `lib/log4j2.xml` to get them in a separate file:

    *   For VCS:

>         ```xml
>         <category name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.storage.sql.SessionImpl" additivity="false">
>             <priority value="INFO" />
>             <appender-ref ref="SLOW" />
>         </category>
>         <appender name="SLOW" class="org.apache.log4j.FileAppender">
>             <errorHandler class="org.apache.log4j.helpers.OnlyOnceErrorHandler" />
>             <param name="File" value="${nuxeo.log.dir}/slow-query.log" />
>             <param name="Append" value="false" />
>             <layout class="org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout">
>               <param name="ConversionPattern" value="%d{ISO8601} %-5p [%t][%c] %m%X%n" />
>             </layout>
>         </appender>
>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```xml
        <Logger name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.storage.sql.SessionImpl" level="info" additivity="false">
            <AppenderRef ref="SLOW" />
        </Logger>
        <File name="SLOW" fileName="${sys:nuxeo.log.dir}/slow-query.log" append="false">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{ISO8601} %-5p [%t] [%c] %m%X%n" />
        </File>
        ```
```

    *   For DBS:

>         ```xml
>         <category name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.storage.dbs.DBSSession" additivity="false">
>             <priority value="INFO" />
>             <appender-ref ref="SLOW" />
>         </category>
>         <appender name="SLOW" class="org.apache.log4j.FileAppender">
>             <errorHandler class="org.apache.log4j.helpers.OnlyOnceErrorHandler" />
>             <param name="File" value="${nuxeo.log.dir}/slow-query.log" />
>             <param name="Append" value="false" />
>             <layout class="org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout">
>               <param name="ConversionPattern" value="%d{ISO8601} %-5p [%t][%c] %m%X%n" />
>             </layout>
>         </appender>
>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```xml
        <Logger name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.storage.dbs.DBSSession" level="info" additivity="false">
            <AppenderRef ref="SLOW" />
        </Logger>
        <File name="SLOW" fileName="${sys:nuxeo.log.dir}/slow-query.log" append="false">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{ISO8601} %-5p [%t] [%c] %m%X%n" />
        </File>
        ```
```

To get the slowest queries:

```bash
$ grep duration_ms log/slow-query.log | sed -e's/^[^\t]*\t//g' -e 's/{.*$//g' |sort -nr | head

802.89  QueryFilter(principal=system, limit=0, offset=0)        query   SELECT * FROM Document WHERE ....
12.87   QueryFilter(principal=bob, limit=0, offset=0)        queryAndFetch   Select DISTINCT ecm:uuid...
10.12   QueryFilter(principal=system, limit=50, offset=0) count total results UNLIMITED query   SELECT * FROM Document WHERE ...
5.35    QueryFilter(principal=Administrator, limit=20, offset=0) count total results up to 20   query   SELECT * FROM ...

```

{{#> callout type='tip' }}

When configuring the log priority to TRACE a debug stack trace is available in the log so you got the code path.

{{/callout}}

## Logging Transactional Events

> Configure log4j in `$NUXEO_HOME/lib/log4j2.xml` by adding the following keywords to your appender conversion pattern `%t` for the thread name and `%X`&nbsp;for the logging context map:
> 
> ```html/xml
> <param name="ConversionPattern" value="%d{ISO8601} %t %-5p [%c] %m %X%n" />
> ```

Reviewer: Maybe something like below? I checked our appenders, almost all of them have the `%t` keywords.
```suggestion
Configure log4j in `$NUXEO_HOME/lib/log4j2.xml` by adding the following keywords to your appender pattern layout: `%t`&nbsp;for the thread name and `%X`&nbsp;for the logging context map:

```html/xml
<PatternLayout pattern="%d{ISO8601} %-5p [%t] [%c] %m%X%n" />
```
```

> You should also add a new category if you want the traces to be enabled:
> 
> ```html/xml
> <category name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.management.jtajca">
>   <priority value="TRACE" />
> </category>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should also add a new Logger if you want the traces to be enabled:

```html/xml
<Logger name="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.management.jtajca" level="trace" additivity="false" />
```

```
